￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼Manual
￼￼EPILEPSY WARNING
Please read before using this video game or allowing your children to use it. Some people are susceptible to epileptic seizures or loss of consciousness when exposed to certain flashing lights or light patterns in everyday life. Such
people may have a seizure while watching images or playing certain video games. This may happen even if the person has no medical history of epilepsy or has never had any epileptic seizures. If you or anyone in your family has
ever had symptoms related to epilepsy (seizures or loss of consciousness) when exposed to flashing lights or patterns, consult your doctor prior to playing. We advise that parents should monitor the use of video games by
their children. If you or your child experience any of the following symptoms: dizziness, blurred vision, eye or muscle twitches, loss of consciousness, di- sorientation, any involuntary movement or convulsion, while playing a video game, IMMEDIATELY discontinue use and consult your doctor (particularly
since experience of any of these symptoms could lead to injury from falling down or striking nearby objects). Parents should ask their children about the above symptoms – children and teenagers may be more likely than
adults to experience these seizures.
Precautions to Take During Use
- Do not stand too close to the screen. Sit a good distance away from the monitor, as far away as the length of the cable allows.
- Preferably play the video game on a small screen.
- Avoid playing if you are tired or have not had much sleep.
- Make sure that the room in which you are playing is well lit.
- Rest for at least 10 to 15 minutes per hour while playing a video game.
Warning: Avoid Damage to Your Television
Do not use with certain television screens and monitors. Some televisi- ons, especially front- or rearprojection types and plasma screens, can
be damaged if any video games are played on them. Static images or pictures presented during the normal course of playing a game (or from putting the game on hold or pausing) may cause permanent
picture-tube damage, and may “burn in” to the screen, causing a permanent shadow of the static image to appear at all times, even when the games are not being played. Always consult your television
screen or monitor manual or otherwise the manufacturer to check if video games can be played safely.
￼￼2
￼￼15 days © 2010 dtp entertainment AG. All rights reserved. Developed by House of Tales. Published by hell-tech. All company names, brand names, trademarks and logos are the property of their respective owners.All copyright and ancillary copyright reserved – No hiring! No unauthorised duplication, decompiling, renting, public performance, broadcasting!
dtp entertainment AG, Goldbekplatz 3-5, 22303 Hamburg.
No responsibility will be taken for any viral damage.
Financed by dtp Game Portfolio 2007 Fondsgesellschaft mbH & Co. KG, Hamburg.
WWW.15DAYS-GAME.COM WWW.DTP-ENTERTAINMENT.COM
WWW.HELL-TECH.COM
Contents
Limitation of Liability 4 Foreword 5 Game Features 5 System Requirements 6 Installation 6 Settings 8 Playing the Game 8 Controls and Interaction 11 Computer and Cellphone 17 The game 19 Tips for your Game Strategy 21 Credits 23 Troubleshooting 28
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼3
￼￼Limitation of Liability
dtp entertainment AG accepts no responsibility for the completeness and accu- rateness of the content of the software stored on the data carrier. Liability for any loss of profits, damages or loss of the saved data or for any other indirect
or consequential damages is excluded, provided it does not result from gross negligence or malicious conduct on the part of dtp entertainment AG. Any claims for indemnity are limited to the amount of the licence fee paid, irrespec-
tive of the grounds for such action.
1. Licence
The purchaser has the non-exclusive right to use the program on a single computer workstation. This right cannot be transferred, rented or loaned. Copying or archiving of the program for backup purposes is permitted. Ow-
nership and copyrights and any trademark rights to the software will remain the property of dtp entertainment AG, respectively and its licence partners.
2. Restrictions and prohibition to modify software
The program, or any parts of the program, may not be circulated, licensed, rented, modified, translated, adapted or published either for a fee or free of charge. Nor may the software, in whole or in part, be disassembled, decom-
piled, or generally in any other way reverse engineered in readable form.
3. Duration of the agreement
The licence is valid until its termination. The licence agreement can be terminated upon the destruction of the software, along with all its copies.
The licence will expire immediately in the event of a violation of any condition in the licence agreement and with no prior notice on the part of dtp entertainment AG, respectively and its licence partners.
4. Limitation of Liability
dtp entertainment AG or hell-tech e.K. accepts no responsibility for the completeness and accurateness of the content of the software stored on the data carrier. Liability for any loss of profits, damages or loss
of the saved data or for any other indirect or consequential damages
is excluded, provided it does not result from gross negligence or malicious conduct on the part of dtp entertainment AG. Any claims for
indemnity are limited to the amount of the licence fee paid, irrespec- tive of the grounds for such action.
5. Final clauses
This contract is governed by German law. Should any clauses in this licence agreement prove legally untenable or unenforceable, all the
other conditions will remain valid. Any unenforceable conditions will be replaced by stipulations that resemble the original meaning of the agreement as closely as possible.
￼￼4
￼￼Foreword
Welcome to the thrilling adventure of 15 Days!
Congratulations on your purchase of this adventure game, which is sure to serve up some exciting entertainment over the next few weeks. There will be puzzling events to investigate and characters to interrogate. If you like, you can put the game in your computer and begin your journey straight away, but just so you can enjoy
15 Days at its fullest potential, you ought to give yourself a few minutes to read through this manual. This manual will help you install the game and choose the best settings for your computer. In addition you will also learn everything you need to know about the controls and the basic game strategy.
Wishing you lots of fun and excitement,
The House of Tales Development Team
Game Features
In 15 Days you can expect to find some fascinating characters and some mysteri-
ous locations. Here’s a list of the features:
High resolution, fully animated 2D/3D graphics More than 20 speaking characters Lip-synched, movie quality dialogue
more than 5 hours of speech
rendered video sequences and tracking shots superb thriller sound track
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼5
￼￼￼System Requirements Minimum Requirements
Pentium® IV GHz or comparable processor with SSE3 support 512 MB RAM (XP) / 1 GB RAM (Vista)
Graphic Card with 128 MB RAM shader 2.0 Sound card supporting DirectX 9®
4 GB free hard disk space
DVD-ROM drive mouse, keyboard
Recommended System Requirements
Pentium® Core2 Duo® 2,0 GHz
1 GB RAM (XP) / 1.5 GB RAM (Vista)
Graphic Card with 256 MB RAM shader 2.0 Sound card supporting DirectX 9®
4 GB free hard disk space
Hardware
￼￼DVD-ROM drive mouse, keyboard
Automatic Start
Installation
￼To let the game install automatically, place the DVD into your DVD- ROM drive.
The game launcher will start up by itself and will allow you to install
the game or make changes to the configuration settings.
Manual Start
If the launcher does not start up then you can launch the game manually: Open Windows Explorer and select your DVD-ROM drive
in order to view the content.
￼￼6
￼￼Now double-click on the file ‘launcher.exe’ in order to start the installer.
￼￼Launcher Menu
This screen makes several options available to you. Install 15 Days launches the installation assistant.
If you have already installed the game, then instead of the Install option being available,you will see the option Start New Game.
Resume Game launches the most recently saved game.
Settings opens the Configuration menu for the settings.
15 Days Internet Page takes you to the 15 Days home page.
dtp entertainment Internet Page takes you to
the dtp entertainment home page. House of Tales
Discussion Forums takes you to the game developer‘s Internet forum.
Product Catalogue (PDF) opens the current dtp entertainment product catalogue.
Install 15 Days
As soon as you select this option, the installation assistant will launch and it will suggest a standard path for the installation of the game. You can either accept this path or enter a new one yourself.
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼7
￼￼DirectX
Even if you already have DirectX installed on your computer from other games, it is recommended you reinstall it just to make sure that you’re running the latest ver- sion. Later versions of DirectX will never be overwritten with older versions, the
system will detect this. You will find DirectX on the 15 Days DVD in the folder ‘Data’ , ‘Redist’. To launch the installation, double-click on ‘DXSETUP.exe’.
Settings
In this menu you can establish the screen resolution and how demanding the reproduction quality is going to be for your computer’s processor. This can
be very useful for running the game on lower specification systems.
Video Settings
This is where you can select your preferred resolution and performance settings. If you experience problems with the performance of 15 Days on your system, then turn off these options one by one until you are satisfied
with how fast the game runs on your computer.
￼Main Menu
You can open the Main Menu in the game by
either pressing
the Esc key or via the ‘Function Hub’.
Open the Function Hub by moving the mouse over
the Map button
at the bottom left.
Playing the Game
￼Two arrows will appear; one pointing up, the other right. Now move your mouse pointer upwards.
Various function icons will appear. Click the Main Menu icon at the
￼8
￼￼top. In this menu you will find the following options:
New Game
Start a completely new game.
Load Game
Opens the menu to load a previously saved game. A picture from the point in time when the game was saved should help you to identify your saved games more easily. Use the arrow buttons to navigate through the list of saved games. You can also access the Load menu when you use the mouse to open the Function Hub at the bottom left of the screen, as explained above.
Save Game
Opens the menu to save the current game. The standard folder for saved games is the
‘15 Days Savegames‘ folder in the ‘My Documents’ folder (Windows XP) or in the ‘Docu- ments’ folder (Windows Vista or Windows 7). You will be given a suggested name for the saved game, which you can change if you wish.
You can exchange saved game files with other players without any problem. In order to load an external saved game, it has to be placed in the folder with all the other saved games and then opened using Load Game. You will also arrive at the Save Menu when you use the mouse to open the Function Hub at the bottom left of the screen, as explained above.
Continue Playing
This closes the Main Menu and reverts you back to the game.
￼￼￼￼9
￼￼Quit the Game
Closes down the game and, following a confirmation prompt, takes you back to Windows.
Settings
The Settings menu allows you to adjust
playback settings within the game. The
following options are:
￼Music Volume
Adjusts the volume of the background music.
Sound Effects Volume
Adjusts the volume of the sound effects.
Speech Volume
Adjusts the volume of the dialogue.
Picture Brightness
Adjusts the brightness of the screen. Alternately you can adjust your monitor’s brightness and contrast settings.
Sub-titles
Switches subtitles on or off.
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼10
￼
￼￼Controls and Interaction
Controls
The controls for 15 Days are intuitive. Almost the entire game is controlled using
the mouse. Only a few functions require the additional use of the keyboard. It isn’t possible to control the game solely using the keyboard, or by the sole use of either a joystick or a joypad.
Keyboard Commands
Esc Opens the game’s Main Menu. Space Bar Shows on-screen help.
Pressing the space bar will highlight the interactive areas of the screen, inclu- ding exits, objects that can be observed and picked up, and people that can be conversed with.
Mouse Pointer (Cursor)
In order to carry out actions within the game, move the mouse pointer onto a part of the screen and click on it with the left mouse button. If some kind of interaction is possible at a location on the screen, then this
is what we call a hotspot - an interactive area within the game environment. The mouse pointer will change to indicate this.
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼11
￼￼Actions Menu
When you click on a hotspot, an Actions Menu will open, giving you options as to how
you can interact
with it. Click on
one of the availa- ble options with the mouse.
The Action Menu for any given hotspot will change automati- cally according to the situation
in your inventory. Additional actions may be made available to you when you have a certain
object in your inventory.
Standard Cursor
By left-clicking any- where on the screen, the character will move
to the selected point.
Direction Cursor
Left-clicking on this icon with the mouse will show a new
camera angle in the current scene, possibly revealing new
items or areas of interest.
Exit
into another scene.
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼Left-clicking on this icon with the mouse will move the character
￼￼12
￼￼￼￼￼Action Cursor
Is shown as soon as the mouse pas- ses over an object
that can be interacted with.
Speech Bubble
Is shown when con- versation is possible with a character.
Magnifying Glass
Is shown when a switch to a more detailed view is possible.
Exiting
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼from the Detailed View Shows where you can exit a detailed view.
￼￼13
￼￼Function Hub
The Function Hub is a round control element which is always shown in the bottom left of the screen. Via the Function Hub you can access the map, the inventory and the most important menu functions.
Map
are reachable via the map and these are shown and active. By clicking on a symbol, you can go directly to the corresponding place in the game world.
Inventory Bar
When you pick up an object in the game, it will be placed into your Inventory. This is where all of the objects you have picked up will go, ready to be used. To display the inventory, move the mouse pointer over the right hand edge
of the Function Hub. To scroll through all the objects in your inventory, move the mouse over the right or left edge of the bar. Here you‘ll find arrows which allow you to see more items in your inventory.
In the circle of the Function Hub is a map and a symbol – this symbol shows your present location in the game. When you click on the circle, the map will open. Symbols of places you have already visited
￼￼￼￼14
￼￼Menu Functions in the Function Hub
When you move your mouse over the upper edge of the Function Hub, the following three options will appear on the left edge of the game screen: Main Menu, Save and Load. Each of these is activated by a mouse click.
Using Objects
To use an object from the inventory, left-click on it with the mouse. This will open an Action menu (see above) which will show possible actions inside the inventory.
If an action is possible inside the scene,
you will also be able to see this from the action menu at the corresponding hotspot
in the scene. If you have the appropriate object with you, then the action menu will automatically show you the possible interaction with it.
Combining Objects
Certain objects can be used to- gether, for example; a new object can be made by combining two
others, putting one object inside another, etc. You can make this happen by taking
an object ’in your hand’ in the inventory and then clicking it on another object within the scene or the inventory.
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼15
￼￼￼Dialogue
In the course of the game you will meet over twenty interac- tive characters. It is possible to
converse with these people. You can recognise the ‘talkability’ of a character by seeing that when you
move the mouse pointer over one of these characters, it changes into a speech bubble. When you
click on the character, the conver- sation will begin.
Symbols may appear at the bottom edge of the screen. Select a symbol from those available using the mouse. Your character will speak and the other character will reply. After this it’s possible
that new symbols will appear for your character.
New Situations – new conversations
Depending on the game situation, the time of day, or the day itself, new options or completely new conversations can become available. It can be worthwhile to go back to ‘talkable’ characters, or to phone them up if you
get the impression that things might have changed in the course of the game.
Aborting Dialogue and Real-time movies
In 15 Days each individual dialogue
is treated technically
as a short film which is played back in real-time. There is the
opportunity to skip
these sequences by
pressing the Esc key. Upon pressing the Esc key, a warning message
will appear in the middle of the screen. Press the key again to confirm the action and skip the whole sequence. Doing this is not
￼￼￼￼￼16
￼￼recommended however, as the game will be harder to solve if you skip information and clues from the characters.
Computer and Cell-phone
Ryzoom
Ryzoom is an online data-bank in which you can do some research as the game progresses (in various places in the plot you will have to use it) when you need some background information. This research will take
place at the computer.
Click on any computer in the game and the desktop will be displayed. You will see icons for applications and the icon for the Ryzoom browser.
Click on this icon and Ryzoom’s start page will load up. You can now enter your search terms into the box at the top of the screen. You can begin your search by pressing the Return key.
Ryzoom will display a list of search results, some of them relevant, others less so. Click on any result to investigate it in more detail. Some Ryzoom pages are linked to one another: You can click on links at the end of the text to lead you further, just like the Internet.
￼￼￼￼17
￼￼￼￼￼Reading Emails
You will see an icon on Jack Stern’s desktop which opens an email program. In the program, you will see a list of the emails which have been received. Click an email to read it. Attachments such as
files can be opened and viewed by clicking on them. New emails are added to the list automatically. You can close the window again by clicking the ‘X’ icon, as in a typical Windows interface.
Telephoning
To make a phone call, go to the inventory and left-click the tele- phone. There you will see various characters who you can call.
￼￼￼￼￼C C C l l li i i c c c k k k t t t h h h e e e c c c o o o r
i c c c o o o n n n t t t o o o c c c a a a l l ll l l t t t h h h a a a t t t p p p e e e r r r s s s o o o n n n . . .
r r
r
r r
e
e e
s
s s
p
p p
o
o o
n
n n
d
d
d
i
i
i
i
n
n
g
n
g g
i
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼18
Important Advice: Take care with your spel- ling – Ryzoom doesn’t correct typos and er- rors will inevitably lead to your receiving a wrong result!
￼The Game
Story and Main Characters
Cathryn Hope and her two partners-in-crime Mike Mensforth and Bernard Dewaele are three young art thieves who exploit the astronomical prices of the international art black market in order to pursue their own idealistic aims. Their idea is simple,
if not a stroke of genius: In various cloak-and-dagger operations they break in unnoticed into art galleries and museums. There they exchange priceless originals for worthless copies, carefully created by their old friend the emeritus art professor Robert McBride. They then sell their stolen goods quietly to rather dubious and eccentric art collectors, and anonymously donate the enormous profits they make from this discrete trade to charitable organisations and worthy development pro- jects. At the start of the game the three art thieves are in something of an upbeat mood – their last job in Johannesburg, South Africa was a complete success and furthermore, it’s also Cathryn’s birthday. Mike and Bernard have
come up with a special surprise for her...
￼￼￼￼￼19
￼
￼￼￼Cathryn Hope
Cathryn is the group’s leader. She is charismatic, adventurous and optimistic. With her cool nerve and amazing climbing ability, she leads the break-ins.
Cathryn is a diehard optimist: she steals from the rich, not for personal gain; instead she distributes her wealth Robin Hood-style.
Bernard Dewaele
Bernard is the planner in the background. His official job is as an art expert for a London insurance company. He used to lead a double-life
working as a lone art thief, but since he’s got to know Cathryn, he has left it to her to carry out the break-ins.
Mike Mensforth
Mike is the guy for anything technical: He is a computer geek who can crack any code and hack unnoticed into any network. He helps
out his partners with their break-ins with his homemade tech devices. Along with all this he also carries out the computer research
for the thefts. In day-to-day life Mike has something of a tendency to overestimate his capabilities – this makes him sometimes a
little difficult to get on with.
Special Agent Jack Stern
Jack is a brilliant but unconventional US Investigator, who doesn’t seem to care about rules and regulations. His boss
hates him for it, but his successes have proved this loner individualist to be right, over and over again. Jack is sent over
to England by the International Police in order to investigate a puzzling death.
￼￼￼20
￼￼￼￼From this departure point an exciting, atmospheric parallel plot unfolds in which you constantly and quite abruptly have to keep switching between the two fronts: In the role of three criminals you have to plot some devious plans, while as a US investiga- tor, it‘s your job to shed light on a puzzling mess of art theft and political murder.
Tips for your Game Strategy
The Basics
15 days is an adventure game. Important here are your powers of observation, attentiveness, imagination, empathy and combining abilities. Wherever you go: look at everything carefully. Give yourself time. Investigate the world in which you find yourself. Even seemingly insignificant details can be important.
Speak to people
Some characters won’t be all that free with their information; some will demand favours, or ask you for something. Speak to them though to find out what they want. It’s completely possible that some characters have answers ready for you – or that thanks to the changing game situation, new questions have become available for you to ask them.
Don’t give up
Don’t worry about trying anything, just give it a go. There is always a way out. There really are only just a few places where you can get yourself into a dange- rous situation.
Save your games
Save your game often. It’s particularly sensible to save when you get the feeling that a difficult situation is about to come up, or when you’ve just overcome a tough obstacle, or if you have just acquired a new object which was difficult to get hold of.
￼￼21
￼￼If you’re not getting anywhere...
Think carefully about your situation. What is your present goal? Which objects do you have, which do you need? Where have you been already, where haven’t you been yet? Who might be able to help you? Are you really sure you haven’t
overlooked something? How are your main characters doing? What are their main concerns? Think about the ‘Space Bar’ too, you can use this to bring up help at the most important places in a scene. But watch out: You‘ll ruin the fun
of searching and puzzling things out if you all too quickly resort to using this help wherever you can. Adventure games are the most fun when you come across the solutions yourself.
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼22
￼But if you get really desperate: There is always someone who knows the solution. When nothing else works: swap your experiences with other players! Or describe your problem on our forums: http://forum.dtp-entertainment.com
￼￼Credits
dtp entertainment AG Presents
A House of Tales Entertainment Production
15 Days
Published by
Publishing Director:
Christos Triantafyllou
Development Director
Tobias Schachte
Creative Director
Martin Ganteföhr
Art Director
Sebastian Wessel
Senior 3D Artists
Karim Rehimi Sebastian Wessel
3D Artists
Marion Kapferer Katerina Voutsinou
Additional Artists
Regina Reisinger Ulrike Gießmann
User Interface Artists
Martin Winkler Haakon Amundsson
Writing & Design
Martin Ganteföhr
Additional Writing & Design
Stephan Naujoks
Engine and Tools Development
Tobias Schachte
Game Scripting
Daniel Ali
Martin Ganteföhr Stephan Naujoks
Character Art and Animation
Motion Capturing Rocketbox Studios GmbH
Project Lead
Markus Wojcik
3D Artists
Johannes Böhm Thorsten Brockmann Denis Dzienziol Adrian Kumorowski Johannes Ostrowitzki Jörg Reuß
Alek Roman
Artur Sabat
John Schroeter
Character Animators
Johannes Ostrowitzki Maciej Wojtkiewicz
Intro and Location Cutscenes
The Light Works Tobias Richter Arne Langenbach Iring Freytag Oliver Nikelowski Jennifer Marx Oliver Stark Maximilian Laska
In-Game Cutscenes
Karim Rehimi Sebastian Wessel
Music and Sound Effects
www.dynamedion.com
Original Soundtrack
Tilman Sillescu Markus Schmidt
Additional Music
Daniel Barbosa Pierre Langer
￼￼￼23
￼￼Original Sound Design
Michael Schwendler Carsten Rojahn
David Philipp
HoT WHQ Bremen Studio Manager
Tobias Schachte
Office Manager
Karina Diehl
Public Relations
Silke Stein
dtp entertainment AG
Development Director
Mathias Reichert
Producer
Paul Guillaumon
Head of Marketing and PR
Thorsten Hamdorf
Jr. Art Director Online
Christian Leibe
Art Director Packaging and Manual
Stefan Sturm
Graphic Design Packaging and Manual
Dennis Barcelona Kerstin Ebsen
Localization
Johannes Bickle Bernie Duffy Maren Nötzelmann Patricia Grube Matthias Eckardt
QA Manager
Pan Schröder
QA Resource Manager
Steffen Böhme
Lead Tester
Torben Schaub-Brzozowski
Tester
Christopher Butzloff
Christin Drobil
Antonio Freira
Santiago Ufuk Fernandez Gültekin Anne Jäger
Hannes Janecke Daniel König Sebastian Franke Hannes Hartwig Joachim Rendtorff Scott Huntington Sascha Leuenroth Mahmut Mir Stefan Müller Vassili Pomjalow Sabine Puigmarti Nicolas Reichelt Marc Schönbrunn
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼International Brand Manager
Ray Livingston
Senior Marketing Manager
Mark Geise
International Marketing Coordinator
Annie Dumitrescu Mario Maglione
Marketing Coordinator
Benedikt Grasmann
Senior PR Manager
Claas Wolter
Community & Content
Manager
Bettina Korb
￼24
￼￼Legal Advice
Maren Fischer
Kai Bodensiek, Brehm und v. Moers
Special Thanks to
Rebekka Adolph Berit Bonde Henning Bösken Marc Buro
Nils Enkelmann
Melanie Garding
Achim Heidelauf
Kay Jungmichel
Christian Krüger
Lukas Kugler
Claudia Kühl
Marc Morian
Judith Roknic
Denise Schaar
Cécile Schneider
Miriam Schubert
Robert Seifert
Ann P. Smith
Ronny Stößer
The team at Marchsreiter Communications
German Voice Recordings Voice Director
Martin Ganteföhr
Additional Voice Directors
Stephan Naujoks Martin Ruiz Torreblanca
Recording Studio
Translocacell - Localization Services
CEO/ Project Management
Martin Ruiz Torreblanca
Managing Partner
Bettina Golk
Sound Engineer
Martin Kühn
Editing Team Leader
Carsten Hebing
Voice Talents
Hans Bayer
Gisa Bergmann Florian Boeder Petra Glunz-Grosch Fabian Goedecke Peter Harting Gregor Höppner
Jo Kern
Hans-Gerd Kilbinger Michael-Che Koch Katja Liebing Djuwita Mueller Philipp Schepmann Reinhard Schulat Fritz Stavenhagen Karl-Heinz Tafel Volker Wolf
Andreas Wolfram
hell -tech  ́s Credits :
Eleni, Vana, Mom, Dad, Christina, Dimitri, Maria, Eleni, Konstantina, my friends, the rest of my family, Christian R., the guys at dtp, the replication factory,
my distributors, the press
and not to forget you, for
buying this product.
If I forgot anyone, mail me
so Seite I know for the next time...
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼25
￼
￼￼Technologies
Uses Bink Video
Copyright 1997-2009 by RAD Game Tools, Inc.
Uses EMotionFX Character Animation System
Copyright 2001-2009 Mystic Game Development
Ogg Vorbis Decoder Copyright 2001 Xiphophorus
Some models from De Espona Infográfica
Copyright De Espona Infográfica
Some models from Complete Characters
Copyright Rocketbox Studios GmbH
developed by
House of Tales Entertainment GmbH
Bremen, Germany
Published by
hell-tech
15 days © 2010 dtp entertainment AG. All rights reserved. Developed by House of Tales. Published by hell-tech. All company names, brand names, trademarks and logos are the property of their respective owners. Financed by dtp Game Portfolio 2007 Fonds- gesellschaft mbH & Co. KG, Hamburg.
￼￼￼￼26
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼27
￼￼Troubleshooting
Up-to-date hints, information about patches or updates, and general news about the game can be found on www.15days-game.com.
General
Should you experience problems related to the display or the perfor- mance of the game, or if the game crashes, you can either change the game settings (see page 6 - 10) or your computer’s system set-
tings.
The game does not run at all.
(This means you can’t see the game’s start menu where you can select “start game”, or the game crashes after you selected “start game”.)
First you should check whether your pc meets the minimum re- quirements for 15 Days (see page 6: System Requirements). If it does not meet the minimum requirements, the game will proba-
bly not run.
Was the installation successful?
Maybe your hard disc was full. In that case you will need to remove 15 Days, free some space on the hard disc, and install the game again.
Do you have the latest version of DirectX installed?
The game requires DirectX to run correctly. You can install this application from the game DVD if it was not installed au- tomatically during the normal installation process.
Is other software running that might interfere with 15 Days? You should check your firewall and antivirus software and settings.
￼￼28
￼￼Are you using the latest drivers for your graphics card?
Please make sure that you are using all the latest drivers for your hardware.
NVIDIA (GeForce graphics cards): www.nvidia.com ATI (Radeon graphics cards): www.ati.com
If the problems persist, make sure that you are using the standard settings, because functions such as “ATITruform”, “Full screen antia- liasing (FSAA)” or deactivated “VSYNC” can lead to display errors.
The game runs very slowly.
You can change the game settings (see page 8: Settings) and set the display values to their minimum.
How to reach the email support: supportintl@dtp-ag.com
￼￼29
￼￼Notes
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼30
￼￼Notes
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼31
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼www.15days-game.com
