CASTLE CRISIS 

Castle Crisis is a fast-paced game for up to four players. Using your shield, you must capture and
launch fireballs against an enemy's castle, while protecting your own castle from enemy fireball hits.
  
Insert the cartridge and turn on the computer. 

The game will start-up in Attract mode. In this mode a single fireball bounces around the screen
, and the game displays the current high scores and winning corner colors. There are 4 variations
 of game play depending on how many players are present: 

In a one-player game, you must destroy all 3 enemy castles to progress to the next level. Once your
 castle is destroyed, the game is over. High scores are recorded for this mode. 

In a two-player game, both enemy castles must be destroyed before both players' castles are destroyed.
 As long as one player remains in the game, both players will receive new castles at each new level.
 High scores are recorded for this mode. 

In a three-player game, scoring is not enabled, and players must compete to win a match. Once a player
 wins the selected number of matches, the game is over.* One castle will be played by the computer. 

The four player game is played the same way as the three-player game, but there are no computer players. 

To start a game, players press their paddle buttons (if START is pressed first, the attract mode will
 stop while the game waits for players to press their buttons). Each paddle corresponds to a corner.
 The counter will begin counting down to the beginning of the game. If a match is being played
 (3 or 4 players), pressing SELECT will set the number of matches needed to win (1-5-10-15-20 note
 that there is no number displayed when 1 is selected). 

Once the dragon releases the first fireball, players must control their shield to protect their 
castle from damage. If a player's fire button is pressed, the fireball will be captured when it
 touches that player's shield. The player may then aim the fireball and release the button to
 catapult the fireball at another player (doing maximum damage). If a fireball enters a hole
 in the wall, that castle will be destroyed. The game is over when all players have been eliminated,
 or when the selected number of matches have been won (for match play). 

Press SPACE to pause a game in progress. The screen will turn black & white until SPACE is pressed
 again and gameplay resumes. 

If the Attract mode is allowed to run for 10 minutes, the screen will turn black until a key is pressed. 
 
* In a three-player single match, the game is over when only one castle remains, which may be the
 computer's castle. In a three-player extended match, a player must reach the selected number of
 matches. A win by the computer is not counted. 