MEGA MAN 2

￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼3 Basic Play
￼￼Take on the role of Mega Man, the original humanoid battle robot. It is your task to prevent Dr. Wily's latest plans for world domination from coming to fruition, by battling with his eight newly deployed robot minions. Traverse through each stage, then overcome his fortress by taking out all those standing in your way, before entering into a final showdown with Dr. Wily himself.
Use  on the stage selection
screen to choose a stage, and
then confirm with START.
You will only be able to access Dr. Wily's stage after all of the eight other stages have been cleared.
● Losing Lives and Game Over
You will lose a life if your life energy gauge fully
depletes, you fall into a pit or you fail to avoid certain in-game obstacles. Lose all of your lives and it will be game over.
♦ You can check how many remaining lives you have left on the second page of the weapon selection screen.
Game Over Menu
￼￼￼￼￼Stage Selection Screen
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼Continue your game from the start of the last played stage.
￼￼￼Continue
￼￼￼￼￼￼Return to the stage selection screen.
￼￼￼Stage Select
￼￼￼￼￼￼Display the password (chip placement) for your current progress.
￼￼￼Password
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼5 Weapons and Special Items
￼￼Acquire these special weapons by defeating each of the eight stage bosses. Defeating some of these bosses will let you acquire special items that will help you overcome many obstacles.
Press START on the game screen to display weapon selection screen 1. Select → NEXT to change to weapon selection screen 2. Highlight the weapon or item you wish to employ, then press START to confirm.
The weapon energy gauge will deplete with use of each weapon. Look for weapon energy to replenish your current weapon's gauge. However, they will also be fully restored at the start of each of the eight main stages. Please note that Mega
Man's default weapon, the Mega Buster, does not deplete with use and can be used as much as you like.
￼￼￼￼￼Weapon Selection Screen
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼6 Items
￼￼There are various items you will come across during the game. These are located throughout the stages or will appear when you defeat an enemy.
￼￼￼￼Life Energy
Small ones replenish two life energy points. Large ones replenish ten.
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼Weapon Energy
Small ones replenish two weapon energy points. Large ones replenish ten. You will only replenish energy for the currently equipped weapon/special item.
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼Energy Tank
Use this to fully replenish your life energy gauge. You can carry a maximum of four at any one time.
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼1UP
Increases your remaining lives by one.