Super Mario Bros. 2


3 Basic Play
Make your way through the 20 areas that make up each of the 7 worlds in this epic adventure.
Basic Gameplay
Defeat enemies by throwing
items, vegetables and even
other enemies at them. Your
life meter will decrease by
one mark if you are touched by an enemy or an enemy attack. If your life meter is reduced to one mark you will revert to a smaller form.
Losing Lives and Game Over
If your life meter becomes fully depleted, or you
fall into a pit you will lose a life. Lose all of
your lives and it will be game over. You will then
be taken to the game over screen with the following options:
Retry      Return to the title screen.
Progressing to the Next Area
You will need to obtain the Crystal Ball from
Birdo or any other boss to open the gate to the next area.
Continue
Restart from the first area of the current world. You only have two continues so be careful.

4 Game Screen
1 2
3 Enemy
Press B while standing on top of an enemy to pick them up.
Life Meter Player
1
2 3

5 Character Strengths and Weaknesses
Each of the four characters have their own particular strengths and weaknesses.
Jumping Power
Running/Uprooting Items/Picking Up Items All characters have the same running speed,
however when carrying an item their speed will decrease accordingly. The list below shows, in order, who is the fastest when carrying an item as well as who can uproot items or pick up mushroom blocks the quickest.
Mario
Average overall jumping power. However, the height he can jump and the speed he can run decreases a little
when he is carrying an item.
Luigi
He can jump the highest and farthest out of the four characters, but he falls back down much slower than anyone else. When carrying an item his jumping power is decreased dramatically.
Toad
He has the least jumping power out of everybody. However, due to his high lifting power, the height he can jump and the speed he can run will not decrease when carrying an item.
Princess Peach
Princess Peach can float in the air for a short time if you press and hold A, but her jumping power decreases quite a bit when carrying an item.

1        Toad
2        Mario
3        Luigi
4      Princess Peach

6 Items
Coin
Collect and use these to win extra lives in the end-of-area bonus stage.
Vegetable
Uproot enough of these and something special might happen!
Mushroom Block
These can be used for steps or attacking enemies.
Mushroom
Will completely restore your life meter and increase it by one mark (up to a maximum of four marks).
1-UP
Grants you an extra life.
Small Heart
These appear after you defeat eight enemies and will replenish your life meter by one mark.
Key
Unlocks locked doors.
Magic Potion
Throwing this will reveal a door to the sub-space world.

7 Bonus Stage
Clear an area and use the coins
you have collected to try and
win extra lives.
Stop the slots one reel at a
time with A and try to line up the symbols.
Land  on the left slot for one extra life, another on the middle slot also for two extra lives and if
you can line up all three  , five extra lives. If you can line up three of any of the other symbols you will win one extra life.
