INTRODUCTION
Now IS not the time to be a wallflower To be a Rock Star-a Rock God, even-It takes more than a killer song, a stage full of pyrotechnics, or a stadium's worth of screaming fans. It takes attitude.
It's time to unleash your Inner superstar on the world once and for all.
STARTING TO ROCK COMPLETE CONTROLS
MENU NAVIGATION
To navigate menus, press the +Control Pad up/down to highlight an option, press the A Button to open Its submenu (if applicable), press the +Control Pad up/down again to highlight a selection, then press the A Button to confirm.
VOCALS
Adjust microphone volume (when microphone IS enabled) Adjust the vocal track volume (when microphone IS enabled) Adjust mlc senSitivity (when microphone IS enabled)
Pause game
B Button 2 Button 1 Button + Button
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼FENDERTM STRATOCASTERTM GUITAR
CONTROLLER
To play gUitar or bass, press and hold the fret buttons matching the notes you see coming down the track. When those notes cross the target at the bottom of the screen, press down on the strum bar to play the note.
• Don't forget, you can hold those fret buttons down In advance. Just like with a real gUitar, it only makes noise If you strum
DRUMS
To play the drums, use your drumsticks to hit the pads that match the rhythm notes as they cross the target at the bottom of the track. Press your foot down on the kick pedal when you see wide, orange notes cross the target at the bottom of the track
StNm ber-Strum up/down to na....lg.t. menus and to hit notes In-game.
Green fret button (use to conflnn selections, just like pre$$lng the A. Button)
Red fret button (\IS. to cancel selection., Just lik. pressing the 8 Button)
Orange fret button
Whammy bar-Press Inl out on su&talned notes to add your own style.
Pause game s..way switch-Choose between slap back,
flange" echo, chorus, or none.
NOTE: Tilt the controller neck upwards to go into Overdrive.
For information on how to play the guitar in-game, see p 8.
~~r\~:~.~~~I~~~~~:~====;'~
Just like pressing the - Button)
Vellow pad (tap to navigate lists, Just Ilk. pressing the +Control Pad up)
Gr. . n pad (tap to
confirm selections,
~~:~:nfr8SSln,9 the
￼￼￼￼￼￼MAIN MENU
At the Title screen, press the + Button to access the Main menu and start building your musical legacy.
SOLO Perform a song just for fun in QU·lckplay mode, or get out there on the road as a guitar"lst, s·lnger, or drummer on your
own Solo Tour.
MULTIPLAYER Play with your friends in Band Quickplay mode, hit the road
to fame in Band Tour mode, or if you have a score to settle, play against your friends in Tug of War or Score Duel modes.
TRAINING Leam tricks of the trade or just practice. From basic techniques to advanced maneuvers, improve your guitar
playing, drumming, or singing here.
OPTIONS Adjust audio, gameplay, and data options, or calibrate your game for your television type
EXTRAS Check out some special features by the creators of Rock Band.
OPTIONS
To adjust options, select OPTIONS from the Main menu.
• Select AUDIO to adjust Vocal Options as well as Instrument, Background Music, CrOWd, and Sound Effects volumes.
• Select GAMEPLAY to change to Lefty Mode or select a Vocal Style (Scrolling or Static).
• Select BAND DATA to rename or delete Band Data, save and load data, and tum Auto Save on or off.
• To calibrate your system, select CALIBRATE SYSTEM. For more information, see
p.7.
TV CALIBRATION
Do the notes on the screen seem out-of-sync with what you're hearing? Are you playing correctly, but still being booed off the stage? You may need to calibrate, especially if you have a fancy-pants HOlV, you lucky dog. (We're not jealous, really.)
Even the most novice musician should be able to pick up and play Rock Band right out of the box. In some cases, however, particularly with HDN systems, the audio and video may play at different speeds, making it difficult to play the right
note at the right time. If you are ready to blame your N musicianship, try calibrating your system.
AUTOMA'rlC CALIBRAnON
for your less-than-stellar
1. Select OPTIONS from the Main menu, then select CALIBRATE SYSTEM.
2. Select the type of N you are playing on-STANDARD (CRT), PLASMA, LCD, REAR PROJECTION, or DLP'·.
3. Press the A Button. Your system is now calibrated. Test it outl
• Select MANUALLY SET if you do not know what type of N you are playing on, or have previously chosen one of the above and it still didn't correct the problem.
MANUAL CAI.IBRATION
1. If you have selected MANUALLY SET, press the +Control Pad left/right to adjust the number such that the sound plays at the same time the note is over the target. When you are done, select OK to proceed to Step 2: Lag Compensation.
2. Perform lag compensation by strumming your guitar, hitting a drum pad, or pressing any button on your controller to the beat of the notes crossing the target.
3. Press the A Button. Your system is now calibrated. Test it outl
• Once you've gone through all the steps, you might try testing your work in Quickplay or Practice mode to see if you've gotten the calibration right. If it's still not perfect, try calibrating again.
If after all that you're still having trouble-or if you just want more information about calibration-please visit www.rockband.com and check out our page on calibrating Rock Band.
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼LEARNING TO ROCK TRAINING
BASICS
~~ .~~
Practice makes perfect~ven
TUTORIALS
for the cock'lest soon-to-be superstar
To shred like a pro (or, at least, an ambitious beginner), hold
down the fret button that corresponds with the nex"~ote that will pass through the target. As it passes, strum up-or down on the Strufn Bar to play the note.
• To keep things simple, if you see several notes of the same color in a row, you can keep the correct fret button depressed and strum only when the note passes the'target.
• When playing chords, you'll nee<;J to play more than one note at the same time, Don't panic, you'll be fine, Just press down the correct fret buttons simultaneously and strum when appropriate.
• Keep an eye on the Crowd Meter-it tells you how much the audience is digging your performance. Play too many wrong notes and the Crowd Meter slips into the red. When it's completely empty, you're kicked off the stage,
WHAMMY BAR
Customize your sound during long notes by reaching for that whammy bar.
• To use the whammy bar, press it in towards the guitar. This bends the notes you're playing and gives your tone some depth. But don't overdo it-you ain't Steve Vai, champ. (Unless, of course, you actually are Steve Vai, In which case, carry on.)
Select TRAINING from the Main menu, then TUTORIALS to leam your craft. These tutorials are perfect for beginners or for those looking to leam a few advanced techniques.
PRACTICE MODE
In Practice mode, you aren't being scored, so it's a great way to try out advanced techniques or master a song without annoying your bandmates or the crowd. Select a song, then a difficulty level (EASY, MEDIUM, HARD, or EXPERT) Next, select the start and end sections of the song you want to play. Then select the speed that's most comfortable for your playing ability.
• In Practice mode, you aren't scored, which means you can try out your wildest styles or put your craziest playing to the test without fear of losing the crowd.
TIP: Tough songs are easier to tackle at half speecH ~ . -
GUITARIST/BASSIST. .>,~.'.
Tear it up as a guitar god or a solid, in-the-pocket bass player. ' . '
• Plug in your Fender'" Stratocaster~ guitar controller (or any other compatible
guitar peripheral) and get ready to soak up the spotlight.
~ .
/~ ~~
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼SOLOS DRUMMER "
Come on, admit it; you only got into playing guitar for the solos But who didn't?
• When you start your solo, the Solo Indicator appears. The Solo Indicator keeps track of how many notes you've landed so you can brag to your guitar techs about it later.
•
If you have a Fender'" Stratocaster'" Guitar Controller, you can use the five special fret buttons high up on the neck near the body for soloing. When pressing
these buttons, you don't need to strum, so you can finger tap that solo-or just showboat like crazy.
13ig l~O(k fndings
Bring the house down at the end of a song with a big rock ending. Go wild and play whatever you want! This is the one time your bandmates aren't gonna yell at you for noodling, so you might as well live it up.
If you playa big rock ending, you'll get a major score bonus-but only if you land those last notes.
Sorry, but not all songs have big rock endings. That's just how life goes, Ace.
If you believe you're the reason the term "drum solo" was invented, welcome to the band.
THE BASICS
Keep the beat like a human metronome by hitting the correct colored drum pad when the matching note crosses the target.
• Hit the drum pad that matches the rhythm note you see as it crosses the target at the bottom of the screen.
• The wide orange notes are for the kick pedal-stomp on that bad boy when these notes cross the target.
• Keep an eye on your Crowd Meter. If you miss too many notes-or hit too many of the wrong ones-you'll lose the crowd and get kicked off stage.
TIP: Before heading out onstage you might want to master the drums in the tutorials. Select TRAINING from the Main menu.
FOR THE PROS: The red drum is your snare, the green drum is your crash, and the yellow and blue drums are your cymbals (that turn into toms during fills).
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼, LEAD SINGER 8 Think you're worthy of wielding the miG? Plug in your USB-compatible microphone
and prove it as the lead vocalist.
~----~
NOTE: You must have a microphone to sing, Any USB-compatible mic should work.
LYRICS
Sing the words as they pass the bar on the left side of the screen. Follow along with the note guides.
PITCH·
The Pitch Indicator shows you the pitch you're singing. If a song is out of your range you can always sing an octave higher or lower. As long as you're singing the right note, you're still on the money.
np: Watch the Pitch Indic,ator.. lf you don't know a song, you can trY to wing It by guessing until the Pitch Indicator lines up with the note gUide.
NOTE: If you see those special percussion notes scrolling on the screen, whack the microphone against your hand in time with the notes passing through the target. Percussion notes allow you to playa little tambourine­ or, a.hem, cowbell-while the other musicians are doing their thing.
￼￼￼￼￼￼VOLUME CONTROL
You can control how much~rhow little-you hear yourself or the original artist during a song using the buttons on your controller.
• To adjust the vocal track (the masterrecording), press and hold the 2 Button, then press the +Control Pad left/right.
• To adjust the volume of the singer's track (you), press and hold the B Button, then press the +Control Pad left/right.
• To adjust the mic sensitivity, press and hold the 1 Button, then press the +Control Pad left/right.
ROCKING OUT SOLO
Get ready to pick up your axe, drumsticks, or mic, and show the world what you've got.
• To begin, select SOLO from the Main menu Choose to either do a simple one­ shot QUICKPLAY performance or go on a SOLO TOUR.
SOLO TOUR
Start out playing gigs in little holes-in-the-wall and work up to stadium greatness
across the globe-all on your own.
• To begin a Solo Tour, select SOLO from the Main menu, then choose SOLO TOUR.
QUICKPLA Y
Select SOLO from the Main menu, then choose QUICKPLAY Select a song, then a difficulty setting (EASY, MEDIUM, HARD, or EXPERT) and get ready to bring down the house.
￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼￼ROCKING AS A BAND
So playing solo was fun, but now you're ready to play as a band. You're gonna have to deal with drama, power plays, and divided profits. But the pay-off can be pretty sweet ... pius you'll be able to take shifts driving the van. Read on, but remember: there is no "I" in band. You'll have to leam to work together.
• To playas a band, select MULTIPLAYER from the Main menu.
TIPS FOR PLAYING AS A BAND
SAVING BANDMATES WITH ENERGY
Got a bandmate who's having an off night? Go into Overdrive, get the crowd moving, and save your band's career---all at the same time.
• If a bandmate fails during a performance, you can bet the crowd is gonna notice-it'll bring down your Crowd Meter, which is no fun. But here's the good news: you can get them back by using your Energy.
• After you bring a band mate back, remember: it's three strikes and they're out. After three failures, your bandmate gets kicked off stage for the rest of the song. And, yes, the crowd gets mad.
COMBINING ENERGY
Sure, you can use your Energy to bailout one of your less-talented bandmates, but that's no fun. What's really awesome is when you and your bandmates go into Overdrive all at the same time! Not only do you work the crowd into a frothing mass of hysteria, you earn a band multiplier of up to ax! The multiplier affects everyone (not just those of you in Overdriver-now that really racks up· the points!
TIP: Going into Overdrive at the same time as your bandmates can be tricky! Keep an eye out for bandmates in Overdrive and then unleash your Energy!
MULTIPLAYER MODES
To playas a band, select MULTIPLAYER from the Main menu.
BAND TOUR
From dive bars to packed arenas, work your way to the top as a band. You can have up to four band members, and the more members you have, the more points you can earn ... unless, of course, they suck.
• Select MULTIPLAYER from the Main menu, then BAND TOUR to start your path to glory as a band. In the Select Your Band screen, choose to either START A BAND (you are the band leader) or JOIN A BAND (someone else is the leader). In the Connect Controller screen, all band members must press the A Button to join. Nice, you're in a band!
NOTE: The band leader must be connected in order for the band to play.
BAND QUICKPLAY
Select MULTIPLAYER from the Main menu, then BAND QUICKPLAY to pick up a gig as a band. All band members must press the A Button to join. Select a song, then each player selects a difficulty level.
TUG OF WAR
In this mode it's just you versus another up-and-coming musician in a battle of skill. Trade off different sections of the chosen song to see who can play more perfectly and, ultimately, win over the crowd.
• To play, select MULTIPLAYER from the Main menu, then choose TUG OF WAR.
SCORE DUEL
In a Score Duel, you're competing against an opponent who is playing the same instrument as you at the same difficulty level. Whoever's got the better chops gets bragging rights for all etemity.
• To play, select MULTIPLAYER frOm the Main menu, then SCORE DUEL.
SAVING AND LOADING
• Your Solo or Band Tour mode progress is automatically saved at the end of a performance.
￼